Installation of Wicd should be done using your distribution package if one
exists.  If not, the installation is relatively straightforward, but there
are a few dependencies:
  1. python (>=2.4, <3.0)
  2. pygtk (>=2.10)
  2. dbus and its glib and python bindings
  3. a dhcp client (dhclient, dhcpcd, and pump are supported)
  4. wireless-tools (iwlist, iwconfig, etcetera)
  5. net-tools (ip, route, etcetera)
  6. a graphical sudo application (gksu, kdesu, and ktsuss are supported),
     while optional, is strongly recommended
  7. urwid (if you want to use the curses client - needs version >=0.9.8.3)
  8. pm-utils (optional for suspend/resume integration)
     Wicd supports using versions >=1.2.4 -- earlier versions may work just
     fine, but they are completely unsupported here.
  9. pybabel

Next, configure Wicd for installation.  Wicd will, by default, follow the 
FHS guidelines <http://www.pathname.com/fhs/> (or distribution standards 
where applicable if we know about them and it's feasible to implement them).
You can specify exactly where every non-Python file (and some Python files) 
in Wicd will be placed.  Pass "--help" as an option to the following command
for more information, otherwise run it as is to configure Wicd for installation.
  python setup.py configure

Note that setup.py will try to determine if and where to install the autostart
desktop file for kde (either kde3 or kde4, but not both) and where to install
the sleep hook for pm-utils.  

If you want native language translations, please remember to run:
  python setup.py compile_translations
before the next step.

Finally, do the actual installation.  This step will need to be done as
root or with sudo in most cases:
  python setup.py install
If you are packaging Wicd, you will almost surely want to use the "--root"
option; for example:
  python setup.py install --root=/package-dir

To uninstall, you can use (using root or sudo):
  python setup.py uninstall

You *MUST* run "python setup.py configure" before "python setup.py install" -
the "configure" step generates wpath.py from wpath.py.in using the paths 
specified from the arguments to "python setup.py configure". 
As noted above in the configure step, "python setup.py configure" will use 
acceptable defaults, so it is usually not necessary to specify any arguments 
at all.

After installation, especially if Wicd has not been installed before, you 
will probably need to restart the system message bus (dbus) or reload its 
configuration.  You will also need to make sure the Wicd init script is
started at boot.  How to do those things is distribution-dependent, so if 
you're not sure, ask in your distribution's support area(s).

